Exercise 1

1. What is Computer?
2. What are the essential parts of computer?
3. Who are the notable inventors of the hardware and software?
  -Cite at least (5) Software Developers and (5) Hardware Developers.
4. Cite your reference/s (APA/IEEE)

ANSWER;
1. A computer is a machine that can store, process, and manipulate data/information.
2. The essential parts of computer are;
  - CPU(Central Processing Unit) - it is the primary control centre of the computer, it manages the different hardware and software components of the computer.
  - Mother Board - it acts as the central elctrical circuit of the computer. It is responsible for distributing power, and delivering information and instructions across the computer system. 
  - RAM(Random Access Memory) - is a memory space that houses temporary data, processes, information, and commmands. 
  - Power Supply - it supplies the CPU power to function the whole computer system.
  - Hard Drive - is a storage where files, programs, and information can be stored.
  - Display Monitor - is where you may view imagery, texts, videos, different programs, and operate systems within the computer via the computer's video card.  
  - System Softwares - are responsible for running the entire computer's programs and applications, convert instructions that the computer may understand, and helps other devices such as printers or mouse to function when connected to the computer.
  - Application Software - these softwares are one of the main reasons why computers are used, they're usually third-party services that most individuals use today.
3. SOFTWARE DEVELOPERS; 
  - 
4. Citation (Citation Generator is used);
  -  (1) Freiberger, P. A. , Pottenger, . William Morton , Swaine, . Michael R. and Hemmendinger, . David (2024, July 4). computer. Encyclopedia Britannica. https://www.britannica.com/technology/computer
  -  (2) What is Computer | Types and Advantages - javatpoint. (n.d.). www.javatpoint.com. https://www.javatpoint.com/what-is-computer
  -  (3) 14 Basic Components of A Computer | Career Development - indeed. (2023, August 28). https://in.indeed.com/career-advice/career-development/components-of-a-computer
  -  (4) Vedantu. (n.d.). Monitor: Importance and uses of monitors. VEDANTU. https://www.vedantu.com/computer-science/monitor

    CITATION FOR ITEM NO. 3
  -  (1) Barfield, R. (2023, March 16). Who invented computers? Bricsys NV. https://www.bricsys.com/blog/who-invented-computers
  -  (2)
  -  (2)
  -  (2)
  -  (2)
  -  (2)
